d1: add backups + importing docs (#7548)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/learning/backups.md

---
title: Backups
weight: 2
pcx_content_type: concept
---

# Backups

D1 has built-in support for creating and restoring backups of your databases, including support for scheduled automatic backups and manual backup management.

> ## Automatic Backups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Automatic backups
```

To view and manage these backups, including any manual backups you have made, you can use the `d1 backup list <DATABASE_NAME>` command to list each backup.

For example, to list all of the backups of a D1 database named `existing-db`:

```sh
➜  wrangler d1 backup list existing-db

┌──────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬────────────┬─────────┐
│ created_at   │ id                                   │ num_tables │ size    │
├──────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────────────┼─────────┤
│ 1 hour ago   │ 54a23309-db00-4c5c-92b1-c977633b937c │ 1          │ 95.3 kB │
├──────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────────────┼─────────┤
│ <...>        │ <...>                                │ <...>      │ <...>   │
├──────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────────────┼─────────┤
│ 2 months ago │ 8433a91e-86d0-41a3-b1a3-333b080bca16 │ 1          │ 65.5 kB │
└──────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴────────────┴─────────┘%
```

The `id` of each backup allows you to download or restore a specific backup.

> ## Manually Back Up a Database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manually back up a database
```

Creating a manual backup of your database before making large schema changes, manually inserting or deleting data, or otherwise modifying a database you are actively using is a good practice to get into. D1 allows you to make a backup of a database at any time, and stores the backup on your behalf. You should also consider [using migrations](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/platform/migrations/) to simplify changes to an existing database.

> In order to back up a D1 database, you need to:
> 
> 1. Have the Cloudflare [Wrangler CLI installed](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/)
> 2. Have an existing D1 database you want to back up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To back up a D1 database, you must have:

1. The Cloudflare [Wrangler CLI installed](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/)
2. An existing D1 database you want to back up.
```

> For example, to create a manual backup of a D1 database named `example-db`, we can call `d1 backup create`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to create a manual backup of a D1 database named `example-db`, call `d1 backup create`.
```

```sh
➜  wrangler d1 backup create example-db

┌─────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬────────────┬─────────┬───────┐
│ created_at                  │ id                                   │ num_tables │ size    │ state │
├─────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────────────┼─────────┼───────┤
│ 2023-02-04T15:49:36.113753Z │ 123a81a2-ab91-4c2e-8ebc-64d69633faf1 │ 1          │ 65.5 kB │ done  │
└─────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴────────────┴─────────┴───────┘
```

Larger databases, especially those that are several megabytes (MB) in size with many tables, may take a few seconds to backup. The `state` column in the output will let you know when the backup is done.

> ## Downloading a Backup Locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Downloading a backup locally
```

> To download a backup locally, call `wrangler d1 backup <DATABASE_NAME> <BACKUP_ID>`. You can use `wrangler d1 backup list <DATABASE_NAME>` to list the available backups, including their IDs, for a given D1 database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download a backup locally, call `wrangler d1 backup <DATABASE_NAME> <BACKUP_ID>`. Use `wrangler d1 backup list <DATABASE_NAME>` to list the available backups, including their IDs, for a given D1 database.
```

For example, to download a specific backup for a database named `example-db`:

```sh
➜  wrangler d1 backup download example-db 123a81a2-ab91-4c2e-8ebc-64d69633faf1

🌀 Downloading backup 123a81a2-ab91-4c2e-8ebc-64d69633faf1 from 'example-db'
🌀 Saving to /Users/you/projects/example-db.123a81a2.sqlite3
🌀 Done!
```

The database backup will be download to the current working directory in native SQLite3 format. To import a local database, read [the documentation on importing data](https://developers.cloudflare.com//learning/importing-data/) to D1.

> ## Restoring a Backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Restoring a backup
```

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

Restoring a backup will overwrite the existing version of your D1 database in-place. We recommend you make a manual backup before you restore a database, so that you have a backup to revert to if you accidentally restore the wrong backup or break your application.

{{</Aside>}}

> Restoring a backup will overwrite the current running version of a database with the backup. Database tables (and their data) that don't exist in the backup will no longer exist in the current version of the database, and queries that rely on them will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restoring a backup will overwrite the current running version of a database with the backup. Database tables (and their data) that do not exist in the backup will no longer exist in the current version of the database, and queries that rely on them will fail.
```
